start adding gitpod blog post (#34)
shyim/shyim.me: content/blog/two-weeks-of-gitpod.md

---
id: two-weeks-of-gitpod
date: 2022-10-17T18:00:00
title: Two weeks after using Gitpod only for development
author: Shyim
author_title: Developer @ Shopware
author_url: https://github.com/shyim
author_image_url: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/6224096?s=460&u=18be3a2d46f07dd42fc2b6dee9b4b9b68bca28d2&v=4
tags: [gitpod, cloud, development, vscode, jetbrains]
---

I am working together with [pumpi](https://github.com/pumpi) on a project named [shopmon](https://github.com/FriendsOfShopware/shopmon) (will be announced when it's done) and he is lazy to set up a local development environment, and I was lazy to show him that. So I gave him an instance of VS Code running on Web on my personal VPS.
Everything was fine until I broke somehow IPv6 networking with Docker containers (I really hate networking), so we looked for an alternative.

## Stackblitz

> We tried [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/) first, but it was really working fine for us. Until we wanted to collaborate and work together with Git branches on GitHub. Stackblitz is not made really for that, so we had to find an alternative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We tried [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/) first, which it was really working fine for us until we wanted to collaborate and work together with Git branches on GitHub. Stackblitz is not made really for that, so we had to find an alternative.
```

## Gitpod

> So I remembered that we talked at the [Barcamp](https://www.kellerkinder.de/barcamp) (must visit event if you are interested into Shopware) about Gitpod. So we tried it and it was really nice. We could start a development environment for a GitHub repository with a single click. It was really fast, and we could start coding directly. We also had a preview environment for each branch and pull request. So we could test our changes directly in the browser by starting a Gitpod for that branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So I remembered that we talked at the [Barcamp](https://www.kellerkinder.de/barcamp) (you have to visit event if you are interested into Shopware) about Gitpod. So we gave it a try and were really impressed. We can start a development environment for a GitHub repository with just a single click. It was really fast, and we were able to start coding instantly. We also had a preview environment for each branch and pull request. So we tested our changes directly in the browser by starting a Gitpod for the specific branch.
```
